---
title: The WARC Format
status: standard
version: 1.0
---

Introduction
------------

Web sites and web pages emerge and disappear from the world wide web
every day. For the past ten years, memory organizations have tried to
find the most appropriate ways to collect and keep track of this vast
quantity of important material using web-scale tools such as web
crawlers. A web crawler is a program that browses the web in an
automated manner according to a set of policies; starting with a list of
URLs, it saves each page identified by a URL, finds all the hyperlinks
in the page (e. g. links to other pages, images, videos, scripting or
style instructions, etc.), and adds them to the list of URLs to visit
recursively. Storing and managing the billions of saved web page objects
itself presents a challenge.

At the same time, those same organizations have a rising need to archive
large numbers of digital files not necessarily captured from the web
(e.g., entire series of electronic journals, or data generated by
environmental sensing equipment). A general requirement that appears to
be emerging is for a container format that permits one file simply and
safely to carry a very large number of constituent data objects for the
purpose of storage, management, and exchange. Those data objects (or
resources) must be of unrestricted type (including many binary types for
audio, CAD, compressed files, etc.), but fortunately the container needs
only minimal knowledge of the nature of the objects.

The WARC (Web ARChive) file format offers a convention for concatenating
multiple resource records (data objects), each consisting of a set of
simple text headers and an arbitrary data block into one long file. The
WARC format is an extension of the ARC File Format \[ARC\] that has
traditionally been used to store "web crawls" as sequences of content
blocks harvested from the World Wide Web. Each capture in an ARC file is
preceded by a one-line header that very briefly describes the harvested
content and its length. This is directly followed by the retrieval
protocol response messages and content. The original ARC format file is
used by the Internet Archive (IA) since 1996 for managing billions of
objects, and by several national libraries.

The motivation to extend the ARC format arose from the discussion and
experiences of the International Internet Preservation Consortium
(IIPC), whose members include the national libraries of Australia,
Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, The
British Library (UK), The Library of Congress (USA), and the Internet
Archive (IA). The California Digital Library and the Los Alamos National
Laboratory also provided input on extending and generalizing the format.

The WARC format is expected to be a standard way to structure, manage
and store billions of resources collected from the web and elsewhere. It
will be used to build applications for harvesting (such as the open
source Heritrix web crawler), managing, accessing, and exchanging
content. The way WARC files will be created and resources will be stored
and rendered will depend on software and applications implementations.

Besides the primary content recorded in ARCs, the extended WARC format
accommodates related secondary content, such as assigned metadata,
abbreviated duplicate detection events, later-date transformations, and
segmentation of large resources. The extension may also be useful for
more general applications than web archiving. To aid the development of
tools that are backwards compatible, WARC content is clearly
distinguishable from pre-revision ARC content.

The WARC file format is made sufficiently different from the legacy ARC
format files so that software tools can unambiguously detect and
correctly process both WARC and ARC records; given the large amount of
existing archival data in the previous ARC format, it is important that
access and use of this legacy not be interrupted when transitioning to
the WARC format.

Information and documentation — The WARC File Format

Scope 
======

This international standard specifies the WARC file format:

-   to store both the payload content and control information from
    mainstream Internet application layer protocols, such as HTTP, DNS,
    and FTP;

-   to store arbitrary metadata linked to other stored data (e.g.,
    subject classifier, discovered language, encoding);

-   to support data compression and maintain data record integrity;

-   to store all control information from the harvesting protocol (e.g.,
    request headers), not just response information;

-   to store the results of data transformations linked to other stored
    data;

-   to store a duplicate detection event linked to other stored data (to
    reduce storage in the presence of identical or substantially similar
    resources);

-   to be extended without disruption to existing functionality;

-   to support handling of overly long records by truncation or
    segmentation where desired.

Normative references
==========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application
of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies.
For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document
(including any amendments) applies.

\[ARC\] Burner, Mike; Kahle, Brewster. - ARC File Format, 15 September
1996; <http://www.archive.org/web/researcher/ArcFileFormat.php>.

\[W3CDTF\] Date and Time Formats: note submitted to the W3C 15 September
1997 (W3C profile of ISO8601). <http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime>

\[DCMI\] DCMI Metadata Terms.
http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/

\[RFC1035\] Mockapetris, P., “Domain names - implementation and
specification,” STD 13, RFC 1035, November 1987.
http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1035.html

\[RFC1884\] Hinden, R. and S. Deering, “IP Version 6 Addressing
Architecture,” RFC 1884, December 1995.
<http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1884.html>

\[RFC1950\] Deutsch, L. and J-L. Gailly, “ZLIB Compressed Data Format
Specification version 3.3,” RFC 1950, May 1996 (TXT, PS, PDF).
<http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1950.html>

> \[RFC1951\] Deutsch, P., “DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification
> version 1.3,” RFC 1951, May 1996 (TXT, PS, PDF).
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1951.html>
>
> \[RFC1952\] Deutsch, P... “GZIP file format specification version
> 4.3,” RFC 1952, May 1996 (TXT, PS, PDF).
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1952.html>
>
> \[RFC2045\] Freed, N. ; Borenstein, N. “Multipurpose Internet Mail
> Extensions (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies,” RFC
> 2045, November 1996. <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2045>
>
> \[RFC2047\] Moore, K.. “MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
> Part Three: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text,” RFC 2047,
> November 1996 (TXT, HTML, XML). <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2047>
>
> \[RFC2048\] Freed, N.; Klensin, J.,; Postel, J. “Multipurpose Internet
> Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Four: Registration Procedures,” BCP 13,
> RFC 2048, November 1996 (TXT, HTML, XML).
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2048>
>
> \[RFC2119\] Bradner, S., “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
> Requirement Levels,” BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997 (TXT, HTML, XML).
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2119.html>
>
> \[RFC2540\] Eastlake, D., “Detached Domain Name System (DNS)
> Information,” RFC 2540, March 1999.
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2540.html>
>
> \[RFC2616\] Fielding, R.; Gettys, J.; Mogul, J.; Frystyk, H.;
> Masinter, L.; Leach, P.; Berners-Lee, T. “Hypertext Transfer Protocol
> -- HTTP/1.1,” RFC 2616, June 1999 (TXT, PS, PDF, HTML, XML).
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2540.html>
>
> \[RFC2822\] Resnick, P., “Internet Message Format,” RFC 2822, April
> 2001. <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2822>
>
> \[RFC3548\] Josefsson, S., “The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data
> Encodings,” RFC 3548, July 2003.
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3548.html>
>
> \[RFC3629\] Yergeau, F., “UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO
> 10646”, STD 63, RFC 3629, November 2003.
> <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3629.html>
>
> \[RFC3986\] Berners-Lee, T.; Fielding, R.; Masinter, L. “Uniform
> Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax,” STD 66, RFC 3986, January
> 2005 (TXT, HTML, XML). <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3986.html>
>
> \[RFC4027\] Josefsson, S., “Domain Name System Media Types,” RFC 4027,
> April 2005. <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc4027.html>
>
> \[RFC4501\] Josefsson, S., “Domain Name System Uniform Resource
> Identifiers,” RFC 4501, May 2006.
> <http://www.rfc-archive.org/getrfc.php?rfc=4501>

1.  Terms, definitions and acronyms
    ===============================

    1.  Terms and definitions
        ---------------------

        1.  ### WARC record 

> Basic constituent of a WARC file, consisting of a sequence of WARC
> records.

### WARC record content block 

Part (zero or more octets) of a WARC record that follows the header and
that forms the main body of a WARC record.

### WARC record payload

Data object referred to, or contained by a WARC record as a meaningful
subset of the content block.

### WARC record header 

Beginning of a WARC record, consisting of one first line declaring the
record to be in the WARC format with a given version number, followed by
lines of named fields up to a blank line.

### WARC named fields 

Set of elements consisting of a name, a colon, and a value, with long
values continued on indented lines.

### WARC logical record 

In the context of segmentation, a logical record may be composed of
multiple segments, each represented by a WARC record.

Acronyms
--------

ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form

ARC ARChive

CRLF Carriage Return Line Feed

HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol

IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

IESG Internet Engineering Steering Group

RFC Request For Comments

UR(I/L/N) Uniform Resource (Identifier/Locator/Name)

WARC Web ARChive

File and record model
=====================

A WARC format file is the simple concatenation of one or more WARC
records. The first record usually describes the records to follow. In
general, record content is either the direct result of a retrieval
attempt — web pages, inline images, URL redirection information, DNS
hostname lookup results, standalone files, etc. — or is synthesized
material (e.g., metadata, transformed content) that provides additional
information about archived content.

> A WARC record shall consist of a record header followed by a record
> content block and two newlines. The WARC record header shall consist
> of one first line declaring the record to be in the WARC format with a
> given version number, then a variable number of line-oriented named
> fields terminated by a blank line. With one major exception, allowing
> UTF-8 \[RFC3629\], the WARC record header format largely follows the
> tradition of HTTP/1.1 \[RFC2616\] and \[RFC2822\] headers.
>
> The top-level view of a WARC file can be expressed in an augmented
> Backus-Naur Form (BNF) grammar, reusing the augmented constructs
> defined in section 2.1 of HTTP/1.1 \[RFC2616\]. (In particular, note
> that to avoid the risk of confusion, where any WARC rule has the same
> name as an RFC2616 rule, the definition here has been made the same,
> except in the case of the CHAR rule, which in WARC includes multibyte
> UTF-8 characters.)
>
> warc-file = 1\*warc-record
>
> warc-record = header CRLF
>
> block CRLF CRLF
>
> header = version warc-fields
>
> version = "WARC/1.0" CRLF
>
> warc-fields = \*named-field CRLF
>
> block = \*OCTET
>
> The record version shall appear first in every record and hence also
> shall begin the WARC file itself.
>
> The WARC record relies heavily on named fields. Each named field
> consists of a name followed by a colon (":") and the field value.
> Field names are case-insensitive. The field value may be preceded by
> any amount of linear whitespace (LWS), though a single space is
> preferred. Header fields can be extended over multiple lines by
> preceding each extra line with at least one space or tab character.
>
> Named fields may appear in any order and field values may contain any
> UTF-8 character. Both defined-fields and extension-fields follow the
> generic named-field format. Extension fields may be used in extensions
> of the core format.
>
> named-field = field-name ":" \[ field-value \]
>
> field-name = token
>
> field-value = \*( field-content | LWS ) ; further qualified
>
> ; by field
>
> ; definitions
>
> field-content = &lt;the OCTETs making up the field-value
>
> and consisting of either \*TEXT or combinations
>
> of token, separators, and quoted-string&gt;
>
> OCTET = &lt;any 8-bit sequence of data&gt;
>
> token = 1\*&lt;any US-ASCII character
>
> except CTLs or separators&gt;
>
> separators = "(" | ")" | "&lt;" | "&gt;" | "@"
>
> | "," | ";" | ":" | "\\" | &lt;"&gt;
>
> | "/" | "\[" | "\]" | "?" | "="
>
> | "{" | "}" | SP | HT
>
> TEXT = &lt;any OCTET except CTLs,
>
> but including LWS&gt;
>
> CHAR = &lt;UTF-8 characters; RFC3629&gt; ; (0-191, 194-244)
>
> DIGIT = &lt;any US-ASCII digit "0".."9"&gt;
>
> CTL = &lt;any US-ASCII control character
>
> (octets 0 - 31) and DEL (127)&gt;
>
> CR = &lt;ASCII CR, carriage return&gt; ; (13)

LF = &lt;ASCII LF, linefeed&gt; ; (10)

> SP = &lt;ASCII SP, space&gt; ; (32)
>
> HT = &lt;ASCII HT, horizontal-tab&gt; ; (9)
>
> CRLF = CR LF
>
> LWS = \[CRLF\] 1\*( SP | HT ) ; semantics same as
>
> ; single SP
>
> quoted-string = ( &lt;"&gt; \*(qdtext | quoted-pair ) &lt;"&gt; )
>
> qdtext = &lt;any TEXT except &lt;"&gt;&gt;
>
> quoted-pair = "\\" CHAR ; single-character quoting
>
> uri = "&lt;" &lt;'URI' per RFC3986&gt; "&gt;"

Although UTF-8 characters are allowed, the 'encoded-word' mechanism of
\[RFC2047\] may also be used when writing WARC fields and shall also be
understood by WARC reading software.

The rest of the WARC record grammar concerns defined-field parameters
such as record identifier, record type, creation time, content length,
and content type.

defined-field = WARC-Type

| WARC-Record-ID

| WARC-Date

| Content-Length

| Content-Type

| WARC-Concurrent-To

| WARC-Block-Digest

| WARC-Payload-Digest

| WARC-IP-Address

| WARC-Refers-To

| WARC-Target-URI

| WARC-Truncated

| WARC-Warcinfo-ID

| WARC-Filename ; warcinfo only

| WARC-Profile ; revisit only

| WARC-Identified-Payload-Type

| WARC-Segment-Origin-ID ; continuation only

| WARC-Segment-Number

| WARC-Segment-Total-Length ; continuation only

Every WARC record shall have a type, reported in the WARC-Type field.
There are eight WARC record types: 'warcinfo', 'response', 'resource',
'request', 'metadata', 'revisit', 'conversion', and 'continuation'. The
relevant fields for each record type are further described in WARC
Record Types. Each field's meaning and legal value format are described
in named fields.

The record block shall contain octet content interpreted based on the
record type and other header values. All records shall include a
Content-Length field to specify the length of the block.

Some record types (and possibly future record types) also define a
payload, such as a meaningful subset of the block or content from a
predecessor record. Some headers pertain to the payload of a record
rather than the block directly.

For example, in a ‘response’ record with a content block consisting of
HTTP headers and a data object, the payload would be the data object.
All ‘response’, ‘resource’, ‘request’, ‘conversion’ and ‘continuation’
records may have a payload. All ‘warcinfo’, ‘metadata’ and ‘revisit’
records shall not have a payload.

Content matching the warc-file rule shall have the MIME content-type
"application/warc", registered below in section 8.2.

> Content matching only the warc-fields rule is useful as a simple
> descriptive format, and has MIME content-type
> "application/warc-fields", registered below in section 8.3.

Named fields
================

General
-------

> Named fields within a WARC record provide information about the
> current record, and allow additional per-record information. WARC both
> reuses appropriate headers from other standards and defines new
> headers, all beginning "WARC-", for WARC-specific purposes.
>
> WARC named fields of the same type shall not be repeated in the same
> WARC record (for example, a WARC record shall not have several
> WARC-Date or several WARC-Target-URI), except as noted (e.g.,
> WARC-Concurrent-To).
>
> Because new fields may be defined in extensions to the core WARC
> format, WARC processing software shall ignore fields with unrecognized
> names.

WARC-Record-ID (mandatory)
--------------------------

> An identifier assigned to the current record that is globally unique
> for its period of intended use. No identifier scheme is mandated by
> this specification, but each record-id shall be a legal URI and
> clearly indicate a documented and registered scheme to which it
> conforms (e.g., via a URI scheme prefix such as "http:" or "urn:").
> Care should be taken to ensure that this value is written with no
> internal whitespace.
>
> WARC-Record-ID = "WARC-Record-ID" ":" uri
>
> All records shall have a WARC-Record-ID field.

Content-Length (mandatory)
--------------------------

> The number of octets in the block, similar to \[RFC2616\]. If no block
> is present, a value of '0' (zero) shall be used.
>
> Content-Length = "Content-Length" ":" 1\*DIGIT
>
> All records shall have a Content-Length field.

WARC-Date (mandatory)
---------------------

> A 14-digit UTC timestamp formatted according to YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ,
> described in the W3C profile of ISO8601 \[W3CDTF\]. The timestamp
> shall represent the instant that data capture for record creation
> began. Multiple records written as part of a single capture event (see
> section 5.7) shall use the same WARC-Date, even though the times of
> their writing will not be exactly synchronized.
>
> WARC-Date = "WARC-Date" ":" w3c-iso8601
>
> w3c-iso8601 = &lt;YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ&gt;
>
> All records shall have a WARC-Date field.

WARC-Type (mandatory)
---------------------

> The type of WARC record: one of 'warcinfo', 'response', 'resource',
> 'request', 'metadata', 'revisit', 'conversion', or 'continuation'.
> Other types of WARC records may be defined in extensions of the core
> format. Types are further described in WARC Record Types.
>
> A WARC file needs not contain any particular record types, though
> starting all WARC files with a "warcinfo" record is recommended.
>
> WARC-Type = "WARC-Type" ":" record-type
>
> record-type = "warcinfo" | "response" | "resource"
>
> | "request" | "metadata" | "revisit"
>
> | "conversion" | "continuation" | future-type
>
> future-type = token
>
> All records shall have a WARC-Type field.
>
> WARC processing software shall ignore records of unrecognized type.

Content-Type
------------

The MIME type \[RFC2045\] of the information contained in the record's
block. For example, in HTTP request and response records, this would be
'application/http' as per section 19.1 of \[RFC2616\] (or
'application/http; msgtype=request' and 'application/http;
msgtype=response' respectively). In particular, the content-type is not
the value of the HTTP Content-Type header in an HTTP response but a MIME
type to describe the full archived HTTP message (hence
'application/http' if the block contains request or response headers).

Content-Type = "Content-Type" ":" media-type

media-type = type "/" subtype \*( ";" parameter )

type = token

subtype = token

parameter = attribute "=" value

attribute = token

value = token | quoted-string

All records with a non-empty block (non-zero Content-Length), except
'continuation' records, should have a Content-Type field. Only if the
media type is not given by a Content-Type field, a reader may attempt to
guess the media type via inspection of its content and/or the name
extension(s) of the URI used to identify the resource. If the media type
remains unknown, the reader should treat it as type
"application/octet-stream".

WARC-Concurrent-To
------------------

The WARC-Record-IDs of any records created as part of the same capture
event as the current record. A capture event comprises the information
automatically gathered by a retrieval against a single target-URI; for
example, it might be represented by a 'response' or 'revisit' record
plus its associated 'request' record.

WARC-Concurrent-To = "WARC-Concurrent-To" ":" uri

This field may be used to associate records of types 'request',
'response', 'resource', 'metadata', and 'revisit' with one another when
they arise from a single capture event (When so used, any
WARC-Concurrent-To association shall be considered bidirectional even if
the header only appears on one record.) The WARC Concurrent-to field
shall not be used in 'warcinfo', 'conversion', and 'continuation'
records.

As an exception to the general rule, it is allowed to repeat several
WARC-Concurrent-To fields within the same WARC record.

WARC-Block-Digest
-----------------

An optional parameter indicating the algorithm name and calculated value
of a digest applied to the full block of the record.

WARC-Block-Digest = "WARC-Block-Digest" ":" labelled-digest

labelled-digest = algorithm ":" digest-value

algorithm = token

digest-value = token

An example is a SHA-1 labelled Base32 (\[RFC3548\]) value:

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:AB2CD3EF4GH5IJ6KL7MN8OPQ

This document recommends no particular algorithm.

Any record may have a WARC-Block-Digest field.

WARC-Payload-Digest
-------------------

An optional parameter indicating the algorithm name and calculated value
of a digest applied to the payload referred to or contained by the
record - which is not necessarily equivalent to the record block.

WARC-Payload-Digest = "WARC-Payload-Digest" ":" labelled-digest

An example is a SHA-1 labelled Base32 (\[RFC3548\]) value:

WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:3EF4GH5IJ6KL7MN8OPQAB2CD

This document recommends no particular algorithm.

The payload of an application/http block is its 'entity-body' (per
\[RFC2616\]). In contrast to WARC-Block-Digest, the WARC-Payload-Digest
field may also be used for data not actually present in the current
record block, for example when a block is left off in accordance with a
'revisit' profile (see 'revisit'), or when a record is segmented (the
WARC-Payload-Digest recorded in the first segment of a segmented record
shall be the digest of the payload of the logical record).

The WARC-Payload-Digest field may be used on WARC records with a
well-defined payload and shall not be used on records without a
well-defined payload.

WARC-IP-Address
---------------

The numeric Internet address contacted to retrieve any included content.
An IPv4 address shall be written as a "dotted quad"; an IPv6 address
shall be written as per \[RFC1884\]. For an HTTP retrieval, this will be
the IP address used at retrieval time corresponding to the hostname in
the record's target-Uri.

WARC-IP-Address = "WARC-IP-Address" ":" (ipv4 | ipv6)

ipv4 = &lt;"dotted quad"&gt;

ipv6 = &lt;per section 2.2 of RFC1884&gt;

The WARC-IP-Address field may be used on 'response', 'resource',
'request', 'metadata', and 'revisit' records, but shall not be used on
‘warcinfo’, 'conversion' or 'continuation' records.

WARC-Refers-To
--------------

The WARC-Record-ID of a single record for which the present record holds
additional content.

WARC-Refers-To = "WARC-Refers-To" ":" uri

The WARC-Refers-To field may be used to associate a 'metadata' record to
another record it describes. The WARC-Refers-To field may also be used
to associate a record of type 'revisit' or 'conversion' with the
preceding record which helped determine the present record content. The
WARC-Refers-To field shall not be used in 'warcinfo', 'response',
‘resource’, 'request', and 'continuation' records.

WARC-Target-URI
---------------

The original URI whose capture gave rise to the information content in
this record. In the context of web harvesting, this is the URI that was
the target of a crawler's retrieval request. For a 'revisit' record, it
is the URI that was the target of a retrieval request. Indirectly, such
as for a 'metadata', or 'conversion' record, it is a copy of the
WARC-Target-URI appearing in the original record to which the newer
record pertains. The URI in this value shall be properly escaped
according to \[RFC3986\] and written with no internal whitespace.

WARC-Target-URI = "WARC-Target-URI" ":" uri

All 'response', 'resource', 'request', 'revisit', ‘conversion’ and
'continuation' records shall have a WARC-Target-URI field. A 'metadata'
record may have a WARC-Target-URI field. A 'warcinfo' record shall not
have a WARC-Target-URI field.

WARC-Truncated
--------------

For practical reasons, writers of the WARC format may place limits on
the time or storage allocated to archiving a single resource. As a
result, only a truncated portion of the original resource may be
available for saving into a WARC record.

Any record may indicate that truncation of its content block has
occurred and give the reason with a 'WARC-Truncated' field.

WARC-Truncated = "WARC-Truncated" ":" reason-token

reason-token = "length" ; exceeds configured max

; length

| "time" ; exceeds configured max time

| "disconnect" ; network disconnect

| "unspecified" ; other/unknown reason

| future-reason

future-reason = token

For example, if the capture of what appeared to be a multi-gigabyte
resource was cut short after a transfer time limit was reached, the
partial resource could be saved to a WARC record with this field.

The WARC-Truncated field may be used on any WARC record. The WARC field
Content-Length shall still report the actual truncated size of the
record block.

WARC-Warcinfo-ID
----------------

When present, indicates the WARC-Record-ID of the associated 'warcinfo'
record for this record. Typically, the Warcinfo-ID parameter is used
when the context of the applicable 'warcinfo' record is unavailable,
such as after distributing single records into separate WARC files. WARC
writing applications (such web crawlers) may choose to always record
this parameter.

WARC-Warcinfo-ID = "WARC-Warcinfo-ID" ":" uri

The WARC-Warcinfo-ID field value overrides any association with a
previously occurring (in the WARC) 'warcinfo' record, thus providing a
way to protect the true association when records are combined from
different WARCs.

The WARC-Warcinfo-ID field may be used in any record type except
'warcinfo'.

WARC-Filename
-------------

The filename containing the current 'warcinfo' record.

WARC-Filename = "WARC-Filename" ":" ( TEXT | quoted-string )

The WARC-Filename field may be used in 'warcinfo' type records and shall
not be used for other record types.

WARC-Profile
------------

A URI signifying the kind of analysis and handling applied in a
'revisit' record. (Like an XML namespace, the URI may, but need not,
return human-readable or machine-readable documentation.) If reading
software does not recognize the given URI as a supported kind of
handling, it shall not attempt to interpret the associated record block.

WARC-Profile = "WARC-Profile" ":" uri

The section 'revisit' defines two initial profile options for the
WARC-Profile header for 'revisit' records.

The WARC-Profile field is mandatory on 'revisit' type records and
undefined for other record types.

WARC-Identified-Payload-Type
----------------------------

The content-type of the record's payload as determined by an independent
check. This string shall not be arrived at by blindly promoting an HTTP
Content-Type value up from a record block into the WARC header without
direct analysis of the payload, as such values may often be unreliable.

WARC-Identified-Payload-Type = "WARC-Identified-Payload-Type" ":"

media-type

The WARC-Identified-Payload-Type field may be used on WARC records with
a well-defined payload and shall not be used on records without a
well-defined payload.

WARC-Segment-Number
-------------------

Reports the current record's relative ordering in a sequence of
segmented records.

WARC-Segment-Number = "WARC-Segment-Number" ":" 1\*DIGIT

In the first segment of any record that is completed in one or more
later 'continuation' WARC records, this parameter is mandatory. Its
value there is "1". In a 'continuation' record, this parameter is also
mandatory. Its value is the sequence number of the current segment in
the logical whole record, increasing by 1 in each next segment.

See the section below, Record Segmentation, for full details on the use
of WARC record segmentation.

WARC-Segment-Origin-ID
----------------------

Identifies the starting record in a series of segmented records whose
content blocks are reassembled to obtain a logically complete content
block.

WARC-Segment-Origin-ID = "WARC-Segment-Origin-ID" ":" uri

This field is mandatory on all 'continuation' records, and shall not be
used in other records. See the section below, Record segmentation, for
full details on the use of WARC record segmentation.

WARC-Segment-Total-Length
-------------------------

In the final record of a segmented series, reports the total length of
all segment content blocks when concatenated together.

WARC-Segment-Total-Length = "WARC-Segment-Total-Length" ":"

1\*DIGIT

This field is mandatory on the last 'continuation' record of a series,
and shall not be used elsewhere.

See the section below, Record segmentation, for full details on the use
of WARC record segmentation.

1.  WARC Record Types
    =================

    1.  General
        -------

The purpose and use of each defined record type is described below.

Because new record types that extend the WARC format may be defined in
future standards, WARC processing software shall skip records of unknown
type.

'warcinfo'
----------

A 'warcinfo' record describes the records that follow it, up through end
of file, end of input, or until next 'warcinfo' record. Typically, this
appears once and at the beginning of a WARC file. For a web archive, it
often contains information about the web crawl which generated the
following records.

The format of this descriptive record block may vary, though the use of
the "application/warc-fields" content-type is recommended. Allowable
fields include, but are not limited to, all \[DCMI\] plus the following
field definitions. All fields are optional.

'operator'

> Contact information for the operator who created this WARC resource. A
> name or name and email address is recommended.

'software'

The software and software version used to create this WARC resource. For
example, "heritrix/1.12.0".

'robots'

> The robots policy followed by the harvester creating this WARC
> resource. The string 'classic' indicates the 1994 web robots exclusion
> standard rules are being obeyed.

'hostname'

The hostname of the machine that created this WARC resource, such as
"crawling17.archive.org".

'ip'

The IP address of the machine that created this WARC resource, such as
"123.2.3.4".

'http-header-user-agent'

> The HTTP 'user-agent' header usually sent by the harvester along with
> each request. Note that if 'request' records are used to save verbatim
> requests, this information is redundant. (If a 'request' or 'metadata'
> record reports a different 'user-agent' for a specific request, the
> more specific information should be considered more reliable.)

'http-header-from'

> The HTTP 'From' header usually sent by the harvester along with each
> request. (The same considerations as for 'user-agent' apply.)

So that multiple record excerpts from inside WARC files are also valid
WARC files, it is optional that the first record of a legal WARC be a
'warcinfo' description. Also, to allow the concatenation of WARC files
into a larger valid WARC file, it is allowable for 'warcinfo' records to
appear in the middle of a WARC file.

See annex C.1 below for an example of a ‘warcinfo’ record.

1.  'response'
    ----------

    1.  ### General

A 'response' record should contain a complete scheme-specific response,
including network protocol information where possible. The exact
contents of a 'response' record are determined not just by the record
type but also by the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as described
below.

See annex C.2 below for an example of a ‘response’ record.

### for 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'response' record
block should contain the full HTTP response received over the network,
including headers. That is, it contains the 'Response' message defined
by section 6 of HTTP/1.1 (RFC2616), or by any previous or subsequent
version of HTTP compatible with the section 6 of HTTP/1.1 (RFC2616).

The WARC record's Content-Type field should contain the value defined by
HTTP/1.1, "application/http;msgtype=response". When software bugs,
network issues, or implementation limits cause response-like material to
be collected that is not perfectly compliant with HTTP specifications,
WARC writing software may record the problematic content using its best
effort determination of the interesting material boundaries. That is,
neither the use of the 'response' record with an 'http' target-URI nor
the 'application/http' content-type serves as an absolute guarantee that
the contained material is a legal HTTP response.

A WARC-IP-Address field should be used to record the network IP address
from which the response material was received.

When a 'response' is known to have been truncated, this shall be noted
using the WARC-Truncated field.

A WARC-Concurrent-To field (or fields) may be used to associate the
'response' to a matching 'request' record or concurrently-created
'metadata' record.

The payload of a 'response' record with a target-URI of scheme 'http' or
'https' is defined as its 'entity-body' (per \[RFC2616\]), with any
transfer-encoding removed. If a truncated 'response' record block
contains less than the full entity-body, the payload is considered
truncated at the same position.

This document does not specify conventions for recording information
about the 'https' secure socket transaction, such as certificates
exchanged, consulted, or verified.

### for other URI schemes

This document does not specify the contents of the 'response' record for
other URI schemes.

1.  'resource'
    ----------

    1.  ### General

A 'resource' record contains a resource, without full protocol response
information. For example: a file directly retrieved from a locally
accessible repository or the result of a networked retrieval where the
protocol information has been discarded. The exact contents of a
'resource' record are determined not just by the record type but also by
the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as described below.

For all 'resource' records, the payload is defined as the record block.

A 'resource' record, with a synthesized target-URI, may also be used to
archive other artefacts of a harvesting process inside WARC files.

See annex C.3 below for an example of a ‘resource’ record.

### for 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'resource' record
block shall contain the returned 'entity-body' (per \[RFC2616\], with
any transfer-encodings removed), possibly truncated.

### for 'ftp' scheme

For a target-URI of the 'ftp' scheme, a 'resource' record block shall
contain the complete file returned by an FTP operation, possibly
truncated.

### for 'dns' scheme

For a target-URI of the 'dns' scheme (\[RFC4501\]), a 'resource' record
shall contain material of content-type 'text/dns' (registered by
\[RFC4027\] and defined by \[RFC2540\] and \[RFC1035\]) representing the
results of a single DNS lookup as described by the target-URI.

### for other URI schemes

This document does not specify the contents of the 'resource' record for
other URI schemes.

1.  'request'
    ---------

    1.  ### General

A 'request' record holds the details of a complete scheme-specific
request, including network protocol information where possible. The
exact contents of a 'request' record are determined not just by the
record type but also by the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as
described below.

See annex C.4 below for an example of a ‘request’ record.

### for 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'request' record
block should contain the full HTTP request sent over the network,
including headers. That is, it contains the 'Request' message defined by
section 5 of HTTP/1.1 (RFC2616), or by any previous or subsequent
version of HTTP compatible with the section 5 of HTTP/1.1 (RFC2616).

The WARC record's Content-Type field should contain the value defined by
HTTP/1.1, "application/http;msgtype=request".

A WARC-IP-Address field should be used to record the network IP address
to which the request material was directed.

A WARC-Concurrent-To field (or fields) may be used to associate the
'request' to a matching 'response' record or concurrently-created
'metadata' record.

The payload of a 'request' record with a target-URI of scheme 'http' or
'https' is defined as its 'entity-body' (per \[RFC2616\]), with any
transfer-encoding removed. If a truncated 'request' record block
contains less than the full entity-body, the payload is considered
truncated at the same position.

This document does not specify conventions for recording information
about the 'https' secure socket transaction, such as certificates
exchanged, consulted, or verified.

### for other URI schemes

This document does not specify the contents of the 'request' record for
other URI schemes.

'metadata'
----------

A 'metadata' record contains content created in order to further
describe, explain, or accompany a harvested resource, in ways not
covered by other record types. A 'metadata' record will almost always
refer to another record of another type, with that other record holding
original harvested or transformed content. (However, it is allowable for
a 'metadata' record to refer to any record type, including other
'metadata' records.) Any number of metadata records may reference one
specific other record.

The format of the metadata record block may vary. The
"application/warc-fields" format, defined earlier, may be used.
Allowable fields include all \[DCMI\] plus the following field
definitions. All fields are optional.

'via'

The referring URI from which the archived URI was discovered.

'hopsFromSeed'

A symbolic string describing the type of each hop from a starting 'seed'
URI to the current URI.

'fetchTimeMs'

Time in milliseconds that it took to collect the archived URI, starting
from the initiation of network traffic.

A 'metadata' record may be associated with other records derived from
the same capture event using the WARC-Concurrent-To header. A 'metadata'
record may be associated to another record which it describes using the
WARC-Refers-To header.

See annex C.5 below for an example of a ‘metadata’ record.

1.  'revisit'
    ---------

    1.  ### General

A 'revisit' record describes the revisitation of content already
archived, and might include only an abbreviated content body which has
to be interpreted relative to a previous record. Most typically, a
'revisit' record is used instead of a 'response' or 'resource' record to
indicate that the content visited was either a complete or substantial
duplicate of material previously archived.

Using a 'revisit' record instead of another type is optional, for when
benefits of reduced storage size or improved cross-referencing of
material are desired.

A 'revisit' record shall contain a WARC-Profile field which determines
the interpretation of the record's fields and record block. Two initial
values and their interpretation are described in the following sections.
A reader which does not recognize the profile URI shall not attempt to
interpret the enclosing record or associated content body.

The purpose of this record type is to reduce storage redundancy when
repeatedly retrieving identical or little-changed content, while still
recording that a revisit occurred, plus details about the current state
of the visited content relative to the archived version.

See annex C.6 below for an example of a ‘revisit’ record.

### Profile: Identical Payload Digest

This 'revisit' profile may be used whenever a subsequent consideration
of a URI provides payload content which a strong digest function, such
as SHA-1, indicates is identical to a previously recorded version.

To indicate this profile, use the URI:

http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.0/revisit/identical-payload-digest

To report the payload digest used for comparison, a 'revisit' record
using this profile shall include a WARC-Payload-Digest field, with a
value of the digest that was calculated on the payload.

A 'revisit' record using this profile may have no record block, in which
case a Content-Length of zero must be written. If a record block is
present, it shall be interpreted the same as a 'response' record type
for the same URI, but truncated to avoid storing the duplicate content.
A WARC-Truncated header with reason 'length' shall be used for any
identical-digest truncation.

For records using this profile, the payload is defined as the original
payload content whose digest value was unchanged.

Using a WARC-Refers-To header to identify a specific prior record from
which the matching content can be retrieved is recommended, to minimize
the risk of misinterpreting the 'revisit' record.

### Profile: Server Not Modified

This 'revisit' profile may be used whenever a subsequent consideration
of a URI encounters an assertion from the providing server that the
content has not changed, such as an HTTP "304 Not Modified" response.

To indicate this profile, use the URI:

http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.0/revisit/server-not-modified

A 'revisit' record using this profile may have no content body, in which
case a Content-Length of zero shall be written. If a content body is
present, it should be interpreted the same as a 'response' record type
for the same URI, truncated if desired.

For records using this profile, the payload is defined as the original
payload content from which a 'Last-Modified' and/or 'ETag' value was
taken.

Using a WARC-Refers-To header to identify a specific prior record from
which the unmodified content can be retrieved is recommended, to
minimize the risk of misinterpreting the 'revisit' record.

### Other profiles

Other documents may define additional profiles to accomplish other
goals, such as recording the apparent magnitude of difference from the
previous visit, or to encode the visited content as a "diff" -- where
"diff" is the file comparison utility that outputs the differences
between two files -- of the content previously stored.

'conversion'
------------

A 'conversion' record shall contain an alternative version of another
record's content that was created as the result of an archival process.
Typically, this is used to hold content transformations that maintain
viability of content after widely available rendering tools for the
originally stored format disappear. As needed, the original content may
be migrated (transformed) to a more viable format in order to keep the
information usable with current tools while minimizing loss of
information (intellectual content, look and feel, etc). Any number of
'conversion' records may be created that reference a specific source
record, which may itself contain transformed content. Each
transformation should result in a freestanding, complete record, with no
dependency on survival of the original record.

Metadata records may be used to further describe transformation records.
Wherever practical, a 'conversion' record should contain a
'WARC-Refers-To' field to identify the prior material converted.

For 'conversion' records, the payload is defined as the record block.

See annex C.7 below for an example of a ‘conversion’ record.

'continuation'
--------------

Record blocks from 'continuation' records must be appended to
corresponding prior record block(s) (e.g., from other WARC files) to
create the logically complete full-sized original record. That is,
'continuation' records are used when a record that would otherwise cause
a WARC file size to exceed a desired limit is broken into segments. A
continuation record shall contain the named fields
'WARC-Segment-Origin-ID' and 'WARC-Segment-Number', and the last
'continuation' record of a series shall contain a
'WARC-Segment-Total-Length' field. The full details of WARC record
segmentation are described in the below section Record Segmentation. See
also annex C.8 below for an example of a ‘continuation’ record.

Record segmentation
===================

A record that will not fit into a single WARC file of desired maximum
size may be broken into a number of separate records, called segments.

The first segment of a segmented series shall carry the original
record-type (not 'continuation'), and a 'WARC-Segment-Number' field with
a value of "1".

All subsequent segments shall have a record type of 'continuation', with
an incremented 'WARC-Segment-Number' field. They shall also include a
'WARC-Segment-Origin-ID' field with a value of the WARC-Record-ID of the
record containing the first segment of the set. All segments of a set
shall have identical target-URI values. Segments may have individual
WARC-Block-Digest fields.

The last segment shall contain a "WARC-Segment-Total-Length" field
specifying the total length, in bytes, of all segment content blocks if
reassembled. The last segment may also contain a 'WARC-Truncated' field,
if appropriate.

The WARC-Payload-Digest recorded in the first segment of a segmented
record is the digest of the payload of the logical record.

Segments other than the first should not contain other optional fields,
as segments merely serve to continue the record data block of the first
record.

To reassemble all segments into the intended complete logical record,
the content blocks of all records with the same 'WARC-Segment-Origin-ID'
value are collected and appended, in 'WARC-Segment-Number' order, to the
origin record's content block. The resulting assembled record adopts as
its 'Content-Length' the 'WARC-Segment-Total-Length' value. It also
adopts any 'WARC-Truncated' reason of the final segment.

Segmentation shall not be used if there is another way to store the
record within the desired WARC file target size. Specifically, if a
record could be stored without segmentation by starting a new WARC file,
segmentation shall not be used. Further, when segmentation is used, the
size of the first segment shall be maximized. Specifically, the origin
segment shall be placed in a new WARC file, preceded only by a
'warcinfo' record (if any).

Segmentation may be applied to any original record type other than
'continuation', but its use on 'warcinfo', 'request', 'metadata' and
‘revisit’ records is not recommended.


Registration of MIME media types application/warc and application/warc-fields
========================================================================

General
-------

This section describes, as per \[RFC2048\], the MIME types associated
with the WARC format.

application/warc
----------------

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype names: warc

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters: None

Encoding considerations:

Content of this type is in 'binary' format.

Security considerations:

The WARC record syntax poses no direct risk to computers and networks.
Implementers need to be aware of source authority and trustworthiness of
information structured in WARC. Readers and writers subject themselves
to all the risks that accompany normal operation of data processing
services (e.g., message length errors, buffer overflow attacks).

Interoperability considerations: None

Published specification: TBD

Applications which use this media type: Large- and small-scale archiving

Additional information: None

Person and email address to contact for further information:

Gordon Mohr gojomo@archive.org, John Kunze jak@ucop.edu

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: IESG

application/warc-fields
-----------------------

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype names: warc-fields

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters: None

Encoding considerations:

Content of this type is in 'binary' format.

Security considerations:

The WARC field syntax poses no direct risk to computers and networks.
Implementers need to be aware of source authority and trustworthiness of
information structured in WARC. Readers and writers subject themselves
to all the risks that accompany normal operation of data processing
services (e.g., message length errors, buffer overflow attacks).

Interoperability considerations: None

Published specification: TBD

Applications which use this media type: Large- and small-scale archiving

Additional information: None

Person and email address to contact for further information:

Gordon Mohr gojomo@archive.org, John Kunze jak@ucop.edu

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: IESG

IANA considerations
===================

After IESG approval, IANA is expected to register the WARC type
"application/warc" using the application provided in this document.

A.  (informative)\
    \
    Compression recommendations

B.  General 
    -------

The WARC format defines no internal compression. Whether and how WARC
files should be compressed is an external decision.

However, experience with the precursor ARC format at the Internet
Archive has demonstrated that applying simple standard compression can
result in significant storage savings, while preserving random access to
individual records.

For this purpose, the GZIP format with customary "deflate" compression
is recommended, as defined in \[RFC1950\], \[RFC1951\], and \[RFC1952\].
Freely available source code implementing this format is available, and
the technique is free of patent encumbrances. The GZIP format is also
widely used and supported across many free and commercial software
packages and operating systems.

This section documents recommended, but optional, practices for
compressing WARC files with GZIP.

Record-at-time compression 
--------------------------

Per section 2.2 of the GZIP specification, a valid GZIP file consists of
any number of gzip "members", each independently compressed.

Where possible, this property should be exploited to compress each
record of a WARC file independently. This results in a valid GZIP file
whose per-record subranges also stand alone as valid GZIP files.

External indexes of WARC file content may then be used to record each
record's starting position in the GZIP file, allowing for random access
of individual records without requiring decompression of all preceding
records.

Note that the application of this convention causes no change to the
uncompressed contents of an individual WARC record.

GZIP WARC file name suffix 
--------------------------

A gzip compressed WARC file should have the customary ".gz" appended to
it, making the complete suffix, ".warc.gz".

A.  (informative)\
    \
    WARC file size and name recommendations

1GB (10\^9 bytes) is recommended as a practical target size for WARC
files, when record sizes allow. Oversized records may be truncated,
segmented, or placed in oversized WARC files, at a project's discretion.

It is helpful to use practices within an institution that make it
unlikely or impossible to duplicate aggregate WARC file names. The
convention used inside the Internet Archive with ARC files is to name
files according to the following pattern:

Prefix-Timestamp-Serial-Crawlhost.warc.gz

Prefix is an abbreviation usually reflective of the project or crawl
that created this file. Timestamp is a 14-digit GMT timestamp indicating
the time the file was initially begun. Serial is an increasing
serial-number within the process creating the files, often (but not
necessarily) unique with regard to the Prefix. Crawlhost is the domain
name or IP address of the machine creating the file.

IIPC member institutions have expressed an interest in adopting a common
naming strategy, with per-institution unique identifiers to assist in
marking WARC files with their institution of origin. It is proposed that
all such WARC file names adhering to this future convention begin
"iipc".

This specification does not require any particular WARC file naming
practice, but conventions similar to the above are recommended within
WARC-creating institutions. The file name prefix "iipc" should not be
used unless participating in a future IIPC naming registry.

A.  \
    (informative)\
    \
    Examples of WARC records

B.  Example of 'warcinfo' record 
    ----------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: warcinfo

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:14Z

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39&gt;

Content-Type: application/warc-fields

Content-Length: 381

software: Heritrix 1.12.0 http://crawler.archive.org

hostname: crawling017.archive.org

ip: 207.241.227.234

isPartOf: testcrawl-20050708

description: testcrawl with WARC output

operator: IA\_Admin

http-header-user-agent:

Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; heritrix/1.4.0 +http://crawler.archive.org)

format: WARC file version 1.0

conformsTo:

http://www.archive.org/documents/WarcFileFormat-1.0.html

Example of 'request' record 
---------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: request

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Warcinfo-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39&gt;

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:24Z

Content-Length: 236

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:4885803b-eebd-4b27-a090-144450c11594&gt;

Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=request

WARC-Concurrent-To:
&lt;urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0&gt;

GET /images/logoc.jpg HTTP/1.0

User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; heritrix/1.10.0)

From: stack@example.org

Connection: close

Referer: http://www.archive.org/

Host: www.archive.org

Cookie: PHPSESSID=009d7bb11022f80605aa87e18224d824

Example of 'response' record 
----------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: response

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Warcinfo-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39&gt;

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:24Z

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:UZY6ND6CCHXETFVJD2MSS7ZENMWF7KQ2

WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:CCHXETFVJD2MUZY6ND6SS7ZENMWF7KQ2

WARC-IP-Address: 207.241.233.58

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0&gt;

Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=response

WARC-Identified-Payload-Type: image/jpeg

Content-Length: 1902

HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Date: Tue, 19 Sep 2006 17:18:40 GMT

Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu)

Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Jun 2003 22:28:51 GMT

ETag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"

Accept-Ranges: bytes

Content-Length: 1662

Connection: close

Content-Type: image/jpeg

\[image/jpeg binary data here\]

Example of 'resource' record 
----------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: resource

WARC-Target-URI: file://var/www/htdoc/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2006-09-30T16:40:32Z

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:23200706-de3e-3c61-a131-g65d7fd80cc1&gt;

Content-Type: image/jpeg

WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:DBXHDRBXLF4OMUZ5DN4JJ2KFUAOB6VK8

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:DBXHDRBXLF4OMUZ5DN4JJ2KFUAOB6VK8

Content-Length: 1662

\[image/jpeg binary data here\]

Example of 'metadata' record 
----------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: metadata

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:24Z

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:16da6da0-bcdc-49c3-927e-57494593b943&gt;

WARC-Concurrent-To:
&lt;urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0&gt;

Content-Type: application/warc-fields

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:VXT4AF5BBZVHDYKNC2CSM8TEAWDB6CH8

Content-Length: 59

via: http://www.archive.org/

hopsFromSeed: E

fetchTimeMs: 565

Example of 'revisit' record 
---------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: revisit

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2007-03-06T00:43:35Z

WARC-Profile: http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.0/server-not-modified

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:16da6da0-bcdc-49c3-927e-57494593bbbb&gt;

WARC-Refers-To: &lt;urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0&gt;

Content-Type: message/http

Content-Length: 226

HTTP/1.x 304 Not Modified

Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2007 00:43:35 GMT

Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.0.5-2ubuntu1.4

Connection: Keep-Alive

Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=100

Etag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"

Example of 'conversion' record 
------------------------------

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: conversion

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T19:00:40Z

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:16da6da0-bcdc-49c3-927e-57494593dddd&gt;

WARC-Refers-To: &lt;urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0&gt;

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:XQMRY75YY42ZWC6JAT6KNXKD37F7MOEK

Content-Type: image/neoimg

Content-Length: 934

\[image/neoimg binary data here\]

Example of segmentation ('continuation' record) 
-----------------------------------------------

Let us take the example of the 'response' record given earlier, and
segment it to fit the within a WARC file no larger than 2K. The first
WARC file would contain the first segment, a record of type 'response'
with a WARC-Segment-Number of 1. Note that the block-digest has changed
-- as the block is no longer the same as the standalone 'response'
record -- but the payload-digest has not changed, as the reassembled
record will have the same internal payload.

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: response

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:24Z

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:2ASS7ZUZY6ND6CCHXETFVJDENAWF7KQ2

WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:CCHXETFVJD2MUZY6ND6SS7ZENMWF7KQ2

WARC-IP-Address: 207.241.233.58

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:39509228-ae2f-11b2-763a-aa4c6ec90bb0&gt;

WARC-Segment-Number: 1

Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=response

Content-Length: 1600

HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Date: Tue, 19 Sep 2006 17:18:40 GMT

Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu)

Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Jun 2003 22:28:51 GMT

ETag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"

Accept-Ranges: bytes

Content-Length: 1662

Connection: close

Content-Type: image/jpeg

\[first 1360 bytes of image/jpeg binary data here\]

The next file would contain the 'continuation' record, with fields to
identify the start of the segmentation series (WARC-Segment-Origin-ID),
to indicate this record's place in the series (WARC-Segment-Number), and
to report that this the last record and what the total size is
(WARC-Segment-Total-Length).

WARC/1.0

WARC-Type: continuation

WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg

WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:24Z

WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:T7HXETFVA92MSS7ZENMFZY6ND6WF7KB7

WARC-Record-ID: &lt;urn:uuid:70653950-a77f-b212-e434-7a7c6ec909ef&gt;

> WARC-Segment-Origin-ID:
> &lt;urn:uuid:39509228-ae2f-11b2-763a-aa4c6ec90bb0&gt;

WARC-Segment-Number: 2

WARC-Segment-Total-Length: 1902

WARC-Identified-Payload-Type: image/jpeg

Content-Length: 302

\[last 302 bytes of image/jpeg binary data here\]

A.  (informative)\
    \
    Use cases for writing WARC records

Below are listed different use cases developing some situations where
WARC files and WARC records may be generated. These use cases correspond
to the needs of the web archiving community.

> N.B.: In a web harvesting context, the files constituting the websites
> are stored as WARC records in WARC files. Depending on the web
> harvesting process configuration, the different pieces of a website
> may not be contained in a single WARC file or in a set of WARC files
> but may be spread out and stored along pieces of other harvested
> websites. Thus, to render the archive of a website to users, access
> software may have to extract files contained in WARC records from
> different WARC files. External indexes may be used for a quicker
> access.

Other users may imagine other use cases to answer their own needs.
Moreover, solutions adopted for each use case are not the only solutions
that may be used. These are presented as examples.

The first column describes the use case and its different steps.

The second column indicates what type of record is generated. Only the
most complex named field are specified in order to clarify the use of
these fields: WARC-Type (mandatory field), WARC-Date (mandatory field),
WARC-Concurrent-To (optional field), WARC-Refers-To (optional field).
The other mandatory or useful named fields are not presented in the
document.

Note: we suppose these WARC records are written in an already opened
WARC file, containing a ‘warcinfo’ record.

  ----------------------------------------------
  **Use case one: An archiving crawler fetches** [**http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf**](http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf) **from the World Wide Web and writes it in a WARC file.**

  **Date: 2007-10-24 at 10:14:22 GMT**
  ---------------------------------------------
  A request is sent by the crawler to the server hosting <http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf>

  A response is received by the crawler from the server

  Metadata further describing the harvesting process / the harvested record are added (e.g. information coming from the log files)

  If the file harvested on the web is too big to be contained in a single WARC file (e.g. 1,5 GB), the WARC record is segmented and a second record is created

  **Use case two: the XML version of the French Gazette of 2007-11-01 has been transferred to the National Library of France (via FTP or email). This file is archived in a WARC file.**

  **Date: 2007-11-02 at 15:20:44 GMT**

  The resource is archived

  Metadata further describing the archiving process / the archived record are added (e.g. information about the transfer)
  --------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------
  **Use case three: An archiving crawler fetches** [**http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf**](http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf) **from the World Wide Web that has not changed since the latest harvest\
  Date: 2007-11-24 at 18:28:24 GMT**
  ------------------------------------------
  A request is sent by the crawler to the server hosting <http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf>

  The crawler detects that the file is the same as previously archived and that it has not changed. The entire file is not recorded to avoid duplicates and reduce storage redundancy
  -----------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------
  **Use case four: After the end of the harvest, Jhove is used to validate the format of** [**http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf**](http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf)**. It produces validation results that have to be stored in a WARC file and linked to the corresponding record.**

  **Date: 2007-11-01 at 20:54:02 GMT**
  ---------------------------------------
  Results of the validation process are added in another WARC file
  --------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------
  **Use case five:** [**http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf**](http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf) **file format has become obsolete as it cannot be read anymore by the existing rendering tools. It is necessary to migrate this file from the obsolete format to a new format.\
  Date: 2020-01-23 at 16:14:32 GMT**
  ------------------------------------
  A file in the new format is generated

  Metadata describing the migration process are added (e.g. tool used)
  -----------------------------------------

